---
layout:     post
title:      AWS Spot Instances with Lambda
date:       2019-12-06 08:04:23
summary:    Summary for week 14.
categories: jekyll pixyll
---

AWS offers a great number of services. 
Amongsts one of the most popular is ec2, which allows creation of virtual computers. 

All ec2 instances have different computing and memory capabilities, that come at a price. 
When it comes to getting the best value for your money, ec2 spot instances, provide you with the best value. 

Ec2 spot instances provide great savings, but since their price is constantly changing, there is a possiibility that the price becomes a little bit higher than what is initially paid, in which case the spot instance would be lost.
To avoid losing those ec2 instances one of the solutions is to use Lambda to capture the 2 minute termination notice, and spin up a different spot instance to replace it.

By using Lambda and ec2 spot instances, you can a much better value when it comes to utilizing ec2 instances as resources, than by just running an on-demand ec2 instance.

<b>Basic Process:  </b><br/>
1.) Create a Cloud Watch event that will capture the 2 minute spot instance termination notice <br/>
2.) Create a lambda that will spin up a replacement spot instance <br/>
3.) Make the cloud watch event from step 1 as a trigger to lambda from step 2 <br/>

When it comes to Lambda logic, the easiest way to describe it is by using Python and boto3 - a package which allows Python to interact with AWS API.

<b>Possible Lambda Python Logic:  </b><br/>
1.) Capture the most recent price of the desired ec2 instance - boto3 function: describe_spot_price_history()  <br/>
2.) Using the price from step 1 and all other desired customizations, request a new ec2 instance - boto3 function: request_spot_instances() <br/>
3.) Make sure the spot instance request is succsefully - boto3 function:  describe_spot_instance_requests()<br/>
4.) Make sure the ec2 instance from the spot instance request is running and healthy - boto3 function:  describe_instances()<br/>
	
In concusion, ec2 spot instances combined with Lambda are a great way to save on ec2 instances or to get a better resource value for your budget.



