---
layout:     post
title:      AWS Lambda Basics
date:       2019-11-22 06:55:19
summary:    Summary for week 13.
categories: jekyll pixyll
---

Automation is one of the biggest things appeals of the tech industry. 
If the tasks is automated properly, it is also generally speaking, cost effective, since there is no any longer manual labor involved, by default more reliable, since manual labor mistakes are avoided, and eventually the task becomes seamless.

There are various tasks that require lots of dedicated resourced, however, there are also small tasks that do not require a lot of resourced but need to be performed with minimum latency.
For those smaller tasks, Amazon Web Services offers a very appealing tool called AWS Lambda.

Lambda is not without limitations.

<b>Lambda Limitations:  </b><br/>
1.) Lambda handler cannot be executed for longer than 15 minutes <br/>
2.) The configurations for RAM and CPU are very generic and limited, compared to such for ec2 instances <br/>
3.) Lambda does not use an AMI, there is no choosing of OS, or custom pre-made images <br/>

However, most small tasks do not need this kind of customization and longtivity to begin with.

AWS Lambda allows the schedueling of tasks based on some sort of event. 

<b>The general Lambda structure is:  </b><br/>
1.) There is an event that triggers Lambda <br/>
2.) Lambda performs tasks defined by the Lambda Handler <br/>
3.) The result is logged <br/>

To create re-create this lambda structure there are 2 simple steps that need to be taken.
First is to create a trigger event.
Second is to define the Lambda function and its handler to respond to the event.

<b>Examples of common event triggers: </b><br/>
1.) s3 event - an object is deleted or added to an s3 bucket <br/>
2.) cloud watch event - a schedueled event such as - everyday at 7am <br/>
3.) API gateway - an HTTP-based call to a certain endpoint <br/>

While there are various languaged that could be used for Lambda creation such ad Node.js, Ruby, Java, the more popular option tends to be Python, due to an easier syntax.

<b>Important things when defining a Python Lambda Handler: </b><br/>
1.) In case there are any Python packages or files that needed for Python execution, they need to be packaged into a zip and uploaded directly into lambda <br/>
2.) Only the "lambda_handler" gets executed, it needs to call all other necessary functions and variables <br/>
3.) If "lambda_handler" is deleted, lambda cannot execute <br/>
4.) Lambda does not allow the handler full access to the host, therefore to store any temporary files use the "/tmp/" directory <br/>
5.) "lambda_handler" takes two inputs: "event" and "context", however, those do not necessarily need to be used <br/>

<b>Python Lambda Hello-World </b><br/>

def lambda_handler(event, context): <br/>
&nbsp;&nbsp;print ("Hello World") #this will execute
	
	
In concusion, although it does have a few minor limitations, AWS Lambda is an amazing and convinient tool for automation of small tasks.



