---
layout:     post
title:      Blog 5
date:       2019-10-11 8:48:23
summary:    Summary for week 7.
categories: jekyll pixyll
---
During week 7 I was primarily working heavily on Group Project 0.

I was involved in every part of the project.
I worked on VPC setup, creating the VPC, adding subnets, configuring route tables and etc.
This step was particularly tricky as I had issues calculating the ranges with the proper amount of requested IPs, however, eventually I figured it out.

I worked on deploying an ec2 instance using the new VPC.
I forgot to add HTTPS port here initially, but then I went back and added it.
This step did not give many issues and was largely pretty straight forward.

I worked on getting SSH keys for users.
I've generated the keys on AWS Key Generator.
Then I created a new user, and proper folderd and files with proper permissions for SSH.
Using the new key, I've generated an SSH access key and gave it to the user.
Then I've used putty-keygen to generate key to test access.
Difficulty here was the amount of learning and precision that it took to generate everything properly.

I worked on linking this ec2 instance with domain using AWS Route 53.
This was a little difficult to understand since it invovled a lot of steps which I've never done it before.
I created a hosted zone and linking it with the Domain at the Domain providers website.
I configured a load balancer using the newly created VPC using ec2 from previous step and linked it with Route 53.
Added a record in Route 53 with domain name.
Main issue with this step was me forgetting to add the HTTPS port, which forced me to go back and re-do this step after SSL step.

I worked on getting TLS certificate for the domain.
Using insturctions from cert bot, I've installed necessary dependies and generated a certificate.
I have stored the certificate in AWS Certificate Manager.
The difficulty here was once I've completed this using the first option, the website stopped working, eventually I figured out that this was HTTP vs HTTPS issue, since they used different ports.

