---
layout:     post
title:      Cloud Gaming
date:       2020-02-07 09:05:39
summary:    Summary for week 1.
categories: jekyll pixyll
---

In the modern age gaming has been consistently growing in popularity. 
Whether it is Playstation, XBOX, PC, Nintendo, or a phone, more or less everyone has played a game or two. 
The technological advancement allowed for more power that allows people to play games with beautiful graphics pretty much everywhere. 
However, just like for so many other industries, the future of gaming is in the cloud.

Just like owning all your companies servers, the idea of owning your own gaming platform and games is a bit dated. 
If you buy a console for $500, and 5 games for $50 each, this is a total investemnet of $750, and you would only have access to those 5 games and would need to purchase new games if you need more variety. 
This price would be much higher for PC gaming. 
However, if there was a cloud subscription serice for $20 a month that gave access to any 5 games of your choice, that would allow you to pick any 5 games you are interested in at the current month or so. 

Cloud Gaming subscription-based model makes it a lot easier for people to get into gaming without a costly up-front investemnet.
This model would allow anyone to play best games with just $20, and if the interest in gaming is lost, it would be much easier to stop.
The only scenario in which purchasing a console would be better if you intend to play the same exact games for years and years to come. 
With cloud gaming, games are no longer physical, they will be digital - so they cannot be lost. 
Gaming console hardware issues will become a thing of a past, since it is all in the cloud. 

To Summarize:

<b>Benefits of Cloud Gaming:  </b><br/>
1.) Much smaller initial investemnet <br/>
2.) Better investemnet for people that only play ocassionaly <br/>
3.) Better selection of games <br/>
4.) No gaming console hardware issues <br/>
5.) Games cannot be lost <br/>
	
In concusion, although it may seem unappealing at first, Cloud Based gaming is the future of gaming.



