---
layout:     post
title:      Programming: Fundamentals over Synatx
date:       2020-04-17 08:47:44
summary:    Summary for week 11.
categories: jekyll pixyll
---

Programming is a way to communicate to a computer. 
In the last couple of decades many programming languages were developed, some similar some different, some popular and some forgotten. 
In the world filled with so many options, understanding the fundamentals of programming are more essential than memorizing the syntax. 

Various programming languages allow an easy syntax to rememebr, which helps programmers by savings time on tasks that are so common that they can be simplified. 
Other programming languages choose not to simplify various things to allow coder to to so themselves, optimizing the code for their own scenario. 
However, it is more important to actually understand what you need to do and what tools to use, rather than to know how to use those tools. 
If there is a task that requires processing of various file types using a dedicated function, a solution might be to use "if" and "else if" statement. 
This solution is logical and can be optimized, however, in the case of thousands of various file types it no longer makes sense, and using a hash map would be a lot more optimal, regardless of how well the previous approach is optimized. 

In another scenario, lets say someone is an expert programmer of a certain coding languages and knows all the syntax of that language, but his basic programming fundamentals are not quite there. 
Without those basic fundamentals, even with the best syntax knowledge, the code that this programmer produces is bound to redundant code such as repiting or similar function, and overall poor code design. 
On the other hand, if there is a programmer that is relatively new to the language but knows the fundamentals well, then this programmer can determine how to structure the code in the most efficent way and then learn how to do so in this programming language.

There are countless programming languages, each with their own syntax, advantages, and disadvantages. 
While more programming languages are created, knowing the fundamentals of programming are more important than knowing the actual progamming syntax.
Once the fundamentals are down it is a lot easier to learn how to do code it, than to figure out how to structure the code properly.