---
layout:     post
title:      Technology as a means of working remotely
date:       2020-03-27 09:39:49
summary:    Summary for week 8.
categories: jekyll pixyll
---

Doctors, engineers, technicians, servers, retails employees, salesman, there are countless various professions around the world. 
With the emergence of better, more affordable computers, there is a relatively new concept a place of working remotely. 
While working remotely may seem like a great option, it comes with some disadvantages as well.

Working remote allows anyone located anywhere in the world be employed by someone else thousands of miles away. 
This is great for various reasons, for example, it allows employers to select the right fit for a position from a much larger pool of candidates, while it also allows candidates from far away apply for jobs around the world.
The idea is, with internet as a means of communication and connectivity, as long as the employee performs the job, the employer has no need to ever meet them in person. 
In the same way, as long as an employee is being compensated for their work, they never really need to meet their employer. 

The main disadvantage of being a remote employee is a matter of employers trusing the new hires. 
Some companies may need an employee to work on very important work, and sometimes they are uncomfortable trusting people they never met with these tasks. 
Also, since employees are thousands of miles away, it makes it harder for companies to manage them as resources. 
Other jobs, such as a doctor, or a cashier, may require actual physical presence and therefore cannot be performed remotely.

While working remotely may be a great opportunity for some jobs, it will not always be the right fit. 
Nonetheless, as technology and means of communication keep improving working remote should always be an option to be considered by employees and employers alike.