---
layout:     post
title:      Knowing the Right Data
date:       2020-01-31 08:20:23
summary:    Summary for week 1.
categories: jekyll pixyll
---

Data seems to be one of the hottest trending topics of the last decade. 
It seems that more and more companies are interested in data, especially Big Data.
However, the trick is not in the amount of data, but in knowing which data is actually important.

In order to truly understand how much data there actually is we have to look back at the past. 
Less than 100 years ago, the only way information could be stored is by writing or drawing. 
People would share things like cooking recipies, histories, music, and so on. 
Overall, there was a massive amount of information constructed by humans and covered a vast variety of topics, for the purposes of contrast lets call this amount of data as 1 unit.

Fast forward to the modern era, and data is generated at a much quicker pace. 
If in the past information was only shared as a necessity, today information is shared on social media, as a social activity.
On top of this we have professionals who write articles, that is also generating data. 
However, the reason for data's massive expnasion is computers, that generate an enormous amount of data, all the time, without rest.
An equivalent of all the data from 100 years ago  is generated in a matter of seconds today.

While the amounts of data are much larger than before, not all of this data is very useful. 
For example, if the business is curious the reactions of their customers in Los Angeles, they do not need to know what the weather is in Berlin. 
While Big Data is a big topic now days, its more important to know which data is actually useful.