---
layout:     post
title:      Technology During Lockdown
date:       2020-04-10 08:57:43
summary:    Summary for week 10.
categories: jekyll pixyll
---

During an event when people need to stay in their homes, technology plays a critical role in many aspects of people's lives. 
In a lockdown, technology is both a necessity and a means of entertainment.

Many people during lockdown switched to working from home. 
This is only possible during the recent developments in Internet that allowed for cheaper, stronger, and more reliable connections. 
As an outcome, the people working from home are able to perform their jobs they are able to still earn money and provide for their families. 

While being home may get boring really quickly, technology allows for a virtually endless ways of entertainment. 
People can watch countless new and old shows on streaming services like Netflix or Hulu. 
Another popular form of entertainment is gaming, today many games are available free, and some high quality games could be played on standard computers, or even phones.

In a lockdown, technology is also a necessity when it comes to communication. 
Since people are mostly staying at homes and avoiding contact, texting and video chatting have been growing in popularity. 
This is both applicable when staying in touch with friends with family, or when in need of contacting services such as delivery food, grocery stores, hospitals and others.

Advancements in internet allowed people for a more comfortable, and enjoyable stay at home. 
As internet continues to evolve, people may choose to stay at home longer.